Welcome to the second session on simple commands
in Linux. So, here we explore some more commands
in the Linux operating system and it is hoped
that at the end of the session you will be
more comfortable with the command line environment
and also looking around in the file system
and knowing about the machine a little more
than earlier. As you know we have been introduced
to the forward slash which is the character
used to separate the directories within the
file system hierarchy.
And it is also the name of the root file system
the starting point of the file system in the
Linux environment. We will see that we can
use the forward slash multiple times and it
is as good as and if we try to access the
parent folder while in the root folder we
would actually stay in the root folder which
actually means that the root folder is its
own parent.
So, as he said multiple users of the forward
slash is as good as a single usage. So, I
want to visit the user bin. So, I will type
multiple times and you would see that I am
in the same directory as slash user slash
bin I. Now go to the root folder and try to
access the parent folder I see that I am in
the root folder still and you can do it multiple
times and it has implies that the root folder
is its own parent.
The ls command has both short and long forms
of the options and when you give a directory
name as an argument the way it is interpreted
is something that we have seen in a moments.
And you can actually recursively list the
files and directories within a particular
folder using the -r option of ls and the sequence
of options to be given in the command line
of ls command is also something that is very
flexible and we can look at it in the demo.
Let us explore the home directory a little
further. So, I am not in the home directory
and when we give the -l option to the ls command
by default it is showing you all the files
and directories within the current directory.
Now if I were to give a folder name let us
say level 1 then it would show what are the
files and directories within the directory
level 1. So, it would go below the level 1
and then show you what is there inside.
Now I want to only look at the permission
string and other details in the long listing
format of the level 1 directory but not what
is inside that. So, for that what we need
to do is give additional option d. So, that
it would show you a string giving you the
long format a further level 1 folder as it
is also shown along with other files when
we did it using the command ls -l.
So, you see that this -d option is basically
triggering that you should not traverse inside
the directory and show the listing. We could
also look at multiple options in one go. So,
-ldi level 1 and you will see that we are
seeing the inode number and we are also seeing
the long listing format and also further directory
which is level 1. Now we may give these options
in any order.
So, let me clear the screen ls -l level 1
and then -di and then I would change the sequence
-t level 1 -li ls -i level 1 -ld l level 1
-l d I or idl. So, you can see that I am giving
the options in very many ways but the output
is identical it just means that the ls command
really does not bother about the sequence
of the options it would take all the three
options that have been given to it and then
produce the output which is basically the
long listing for the folder level 1 along
with the inode number to be displayed on the
screen.
Now this flexibility in terms of giving the
option either before or after the argument
is not available with every command because
sometimes some of the options require the
argument to immediately follow them in which
case the sequence of how you provide them
on the command line would be quite important.
So, generally it is a good idea to follow
the sequence in this following manner.
Where the options are in the middle and collected
together as far as possible and then the arguments
are following after that okay. So, this is
a very standard way of writing a command.
If you see the manual page for the ls command
you would notice that there are some options
which have a long format also that is a long
option also is available and they are basically
equivalent and some of them do not have that.
For example -l does not have a long form whereas
if you look at -i it has a long farm -inode
and then if you look at d, it has a long form
called directory. So, which means that I can
actually type in this manner -idl and then
level 1 I could also type in this manner -l
--directory --inode level1. So, you could
see that the output is same except that in
this form if you write the intention of the
command is very clear because the long form
of the option is a little more human readable.
However it is only for those who wish to type
a lot uh but it is a good idea to also learn
the short form because the beauty of the command
line environment is also to be able to write
a very short command. So, that to do a lot
of work.
So, there are some commands available which
help you know the content of a text file a
little more. So, we have already seen the
less command and. Now we would see the wc
command the head command the tail command
the cat command and the more command all of
these let you inspect the contents of a text
file. We will take the example of slash it
is his slash profile to use these commands.
So, we go to the slash etc folder which contains
the configurations and there is one configuration
which will be very important for anyone who
uses a shell and that is called the etc profile.
So, we will understand what is in that profile
uh later as we learn about the uh shell scripts
etcetera for now let us look at the content
ls -l profile is there any file like that
and you see that yes there is a file like
that.
Now what are the contents of it?. So, earlier
we learned about the less command. So, if
you type a less profile and you will see the
contents of it and when the contents are scrolled
uh at the end you can actually see that uh
available as bracket end which means that
the contents are over and you may. Now press
q to come out of it. So, this is a short file
fitting in one screen itself.
Now there are also other ways of looking at
the content. So, cat is one such command.
So, it is to cat it or concatenate the text
onto the screen. So, if you type cat profile
it would just dump the contents of the file
onto the screen and then exit. So, there is
no more prompting that is required for you
to come out by pressing a queue or anything
like that. The disadvantage of cat is that
you cannot actually move back and forth to
look at the content page by page and you cannot
also come out halfway through when the text
is being displayed on the screen whereas in
the case of ls you have uh such features.
So, sometimes if the file is very long cat
is not the best way to look at the contents
because the file would keep scrolling on the
screen and depending upon how many lines are
stored by your terminal emulator uh you may
not actually be able to see the initial content
by the time it finishes uh displaying the
whole ah file on the screen. Now there are
some more such commands available.
So, let me let me clear the screen now. More
is also one command available. So, more is
going to ah behave similar to less uh it would
also allow you to look at the contents of
a file page by page if there are multiple
pages. Now you may uh also look at it uh just
the first few lines or the last few lines.
So, there is a command called head and if
you type head profile you will see the first
ten lines.
So, let us look at the man page of health
and it shows you here that it actually prints
the first ten lines of the file but if you
are interested in less number of lines you
could also do that using -n and then the number
of lines. So, let us do that uh I would say
type -n and then just the five lines of the
file called profile and you see that exactly
five lines have been displayed.
There is another command called tail okay
as the name indicates you can view the last
few lines of the text file tail profile so
you can see that the last ten lines are there
let us look at the man page for tail and it
tells you that it prints the last ten lines
of the file to the screen. So, just like a
head command the tail command also supports
uh reducing or increasing the number of lines
that are to be displayed. So, here I am trying
to show the last five lens of the uh file
profile and here are the last five lines.
As you can see there are multiple ways to
inspect the contents of any text file uh within
the next environment before you open the file
it may be a good idea to inspect how many
lines are there? How big is a file? So, there
is a command for that called wc. Look at the
main page of wc it tells you that it will
show you how many new lines are there which
means how many lines are there and how many
words are there and how many bites are there
in each of the text files that we are giving.
So, let us go ahead and plan it on the file
profile. So, wc file I said that there are
27 lines in that particular file and there
are 97 words and then 581 bites it is occupying
on the disk. So, if you look at the content
in the long listing it would show you that
five hundred and eighty one is the size of
the file called etc profile. Now sometimes
we are usually interested only the number
of lines for the purpose of trimming some
of them displaying a specific line etcetera.
So, for that we may use option -l okay. So,
it just gives you the number of lines. Now
we may be interested in knowing where are
these commands and where are they located
etcetera. So, there is a command called which
okay. So, we say which less and it will tell
you the location of that particular command
it is sitting in user bin. So, we may want
to know what is this which itself.
So, man which and it tells you that you can
actually locate the okay. So, there is another
command called whatis and using that you will
have a very brief description of the command
okay. So, man page is showing you a complete
manual page but what is would show you just
the first line of the man page where the brief
description of that particular command is
available.
Now you will see that there is also another
command called more and you will see that
this command is also in user bin. So, let
us see uh these two how big they are ls -l
and then I give the part to know more about
them okay and ls -l user bin. Now you could
see that the command called more actually
occupies less space it is a smaller command
and the command called less is actually a
bigger executable you can see that it occupies
180 kilobytes. The joke about this in Linux
is that less is more.
We have seen that the manual pages which come
bundled along with Linux help us in learning
more about a command and often we may want
to discover more commands for a specific purpose.
So, you could search for them not necessarily
going to the internet but within the Linux
environment itself at the bash prompt by using
the apropos command.
So, what it would do is for a keyword it would
show you all the commands which would have
that keyword in description. And you could
also actually browse through various sections
and various commands in those sections using
a system called info. And once you find out
the name of any command you can learn more
about it obviously from the man pages but
also to know where is it located and what
type of a command is it a script or is it
an alias or is it a binary file sitting in
one of the binary directories like user bin
etcetera.
So, we can explore the commands all by ourselves
without having to go to the internet using
these set of features that are available with
the Linux operating system. Let us have a
demonstration of how to discover new commands
by using the features that we have just now
mentioned. So, apropos and you can give a
keyword which would be searched for. So, let
us give a keyword like who.
So, I want to know who are logged onto the
system etcetera okay. So, when you type apropos
who it will give you a set of commands which
will help you to know who are logged on and
one of them is the who itself and of course
there is another command called who am I which
we have used in one of the earlier sessions
to print the name of the user who is locked
on okay.
Now obviously to know more about it you can
type a man who and learn more about it from
the manual pages and what is this command
apropos? you could actually ask for it by
typing which apropos and you would see that
it is sitting in user bin apropos. There is
another command called whatis whatis and let
us say who. So, if there is a command called
who I want a brief description of whatis that
command and what is actually do that okay.
So, you could say whatis ls, whatis ps whatis
wc whatis less what is more. So, you could
actually ask what are those command and what
is would give you a very brief description
of that command. Now you want to see where
is this command located namely the whatis
command. So, which whatis would tell you that
it is located in user bin. So, let us see
whether these are both same or not.
So, if you type ls -l user bin apropos it
appears that user bin apropos is actually
a symbolic link to whatis command. So, it
means that actually when you type whatis or
apropos is the same executable which is running
however the output is different. For example
if I type whatis who and apropos who then
the output is different. So, how is this possible?
The reason is that in Linux every executable
would know in what name it has been invoked.
And depending on the name that it is invoked
it could actually have different behaviour
okay. So, you could actually have these features
tested out as part of your own baskets uh
once you start learning that as part of this
course. Now apropos is also having the same
output uh as man -k and you will see that
the identical output is coming. So, searching
for keyword using the manual pages is the
same as what apropos is doing.
Now there are also some more features such
as available. For example you can type for
help and what actually help does is show you
certain keywords that are actually reserved
for the shell which you are running which
shell are we running? So, we are running back
shell okay you can see here you are running
bash shell and the help command shows you
but all the special words that are used by
the bash environment.
I will show you the info also feature you
could see that you could go to any a section
and you can browse through the commands and
you can put the cars on any of the commands
for example chmode I will go there and then
press enter and you would see the information
about the chmode that is shown here. And we
can actually go back by using the left angle
bracket which is same as shift plus comma
okay you come to the main window.
And you could then go to some other command
and read about that and then again come back
to the man. So, you can actually almost like
a browser text based browser you can actually
browse through the commands that are available
in the info system that came along with the
Linux operator. Now sometimes you may want
to know what type of a community. So, type
is a command to tell you what type of a command.
So, let us say type type. So, it says it is
a shell bulletin. What it means is that the
command type is actually being offered to
you from the shell and not from the operating
system okay. So, type ls. Now it says that
ls is alias to type command. So, which means
that it is actually coming from the command
ls after having been alias with certain option
and which ls will tell you that it is actually
coming from the operating system because there
is executable available can we check about
that.
You can see that it is an executable and it
is sitting in the user bin directory we may
even find more about it by using the file
command and you will see that it is an ELF
64 bit executable for X86 architecture and
so on and occupying about 142 kilo bites and
therefore ls is actually an executable and
therefore offered from the operating system
whereas type is actually coming from the shell.
So, similarly help is also a shell bulletin.
So, sometimes when you are running a command
it is a good idea to know is it being offered
by the shell or by the operating system or
is it an alias. So, that brings the context
to aliases? What are aliases? Aliases are
nothing but nicknames that are given to certain
commands sometimes you may want it for convenience.
For example you may want to very frequently
look at the long listing of your directory
ok and you may want to give that as an alias.
So, I may say alias and let us save long listing
is equal to ls -l. Now you see that l l is
a new command that you have created and if
you type l l you actually get the long listing
of the current directory. Now you can ask
what is this l l? And it tells you that l
l is alias asked to ls -l.
So, you understand it is not a command coming
from the operating system is alias coming
from what you have configured just a while
back. Now you do not want that you can remove
alias ll. You may want to find out what are
alias that have been configured for you in
the batch and you logged on and just type
alias and then you would see as list of alias
that are there.
Some of these are actually created uh by the
user and some of them may be created by the
administrator on behalf of the user by putting
them in etc profile or some such a script
file which is executed whenever the batch
environment starts. We will learn about that
also a little later okay. Now you can always
remove some of these aliases. So, I want to
remove let us say this alias.
So, I could just say un alias l okay. Now
I will again type alias and you could see
that that particular entry has been missing.
Now what happens is that if I type just l
obviously this must have come in but earlier
if you were typed then it would actually give
you the output which is corresponding to ls
-C F as options.
So, by now you are familiar with the concept
of arguments and options. So, options are
basically enhanced features of the command
that we are giving and arguments are specific
names of files or directories that we are
giving on the command line. So, that the command
would act on those respect files are territories
as requirement needs. Now when we are writing
a command we could actually have multiple
arguments on the command line and the way
those arguments are interpreted depends upon
the command itself.
So, we should definitely read the man page
of every command that we are going to use
frequently to understand how this interpretation
is taking place. So, if you look at the commands
like ah copying using cp or moving a file
using mv. Then if you give two arguments what
happens is something that we have already
seen and let us see how this is actually changing
when the second argument is directory or if
it is a last argument among many many arguments
that are given on the command line.
And sometimes the recursion is sometimes assumed
for some command line and sometimes you have
to explicitly state it. So, let us look at
that difference also in a moment. So, we are.
Now in our home directory and we will see
how the number of arguments can be specified.
So, I will take uh the example of touch command
to create some files. Let me just see that
there are no files in my home directory. So,
I will create some empty files for this practice.
So, I would say touch and let us say file1.
Now if you give multiple files all of them
will be created. So, this is the idea of a
multiple arguments okay. So, if I give like
this it means that all the three files will
be created in one go and the time stamp will
also be identical okay. So, we have seen that
these three files have been created. Now to
illustrate the way the directory will be interpreted
as one of the arguments in the copy file we
will create an empty directory mkdir my director
okay.
So, then I would say copy file1 to my directory
and what happens is that the file1 has been
copied over to my directory. So, if you put
ls you would see that the file1 is actually
there in the home directory but if you go
to the directory mydir and there is a file
called file1 there also which means you have
made a copy of that okay. Now let us say I
type copy file1 to file2.
Now what happens is that if the second argument
is a file then you are trying to override
that file by this copy command and naturally
it would ask you to confirm if you have given
with the -i option and let us say I do not
want to do that I said no and I have given
earlier for cp which is -i and if you look
at the man page of cp -i would correspond
to interactive which means that it should
prompt whenever there is an overwriting.
So, it is a good idea to have that alias kept.
Now let me go to mydir and remove this file
and come out and then I can. Now remove the
directory also. So, our mydir will remove
an empty directory. Now let me go back and
create it again and see if I can do it without
having to go and remove the files before I
remove the directory. So, I create the directory
again. Now I go to that directory and I create
some file there well you see that there is
a file that is available though it is a empty
file but it is still a file that is there
inside and I want to remove this directory.
And now you see that it is not empty and therefore
you cannot remove it automatically. So, you
may want to ah force the removal and you could
actually give an option called -. So, rm -r
mydir and if then go ahead and descend into
the director and remove whatever is there
in that. So, it would ask each time because
I have asked for that the alias -i option
I have given in the allies. So, you can see
what is alias I have r -i.
So, because I have set the interactive option
already it would ask me if I do not have that
alias it would not ask me let us test it out
already okay. So, I will alias rm then I will
again see what is alias for arm there is no
such alias. Now which rm it says rm is a command.
So, you now see that this rm command is quite
dangerous because it would not ask you while
removing the directory okay.
So, let me just try that out make dir mydir
go to mydir and touch a file okay then come
back to the home directory rm -r mydir and
you see that it actually deleted the directory
without even asking you. So, which means that
it goes by the philosophy of Linux of no nonsense
and you intended to remove the directory and
that is what has been done. So, it is a good
idea for novice users to use the aliases with
the i so, that unintentionally you will not
remove and the prompting actually makes you
think once more before you say yes.
Now some options assume recursion and some
options do not assume recursion okay. So,
here I will just show you we make a directory
and we go into the directory and create let
us say uh two files in them come back to the
home directory and I want to look at the contents
of mydir. So, you can see that there are two
files in them. Now I want to rename the mydir
I would actually just use a move command.
But let us I want to copy to do some other
name. So, what would happen? Copy mydir and
I went to copy to another directory the second
argument is actually a directory that does
not exist and we would like to make a copy
and that does not seem to help because it
is not a directory that is existing right
now. So, what you could do is copy -r mydir
to mydir. So, if you give the -r option it
would actually work because it now has created
the second directory let us go and see that.
So, it has the files that we have created.
So, which means that for the copy command
the recursion is not assumed while copying
it is asking whether you want it to be recursive
or not. Now mv command does not ask for that
you will see that let us say I want to move
the mydir2 mydir3 and you see that it just
renamed it and therefore there is no recursion
that is being asked for.
So, what it in place is that some commands
assume recursion some commands do not assume
recursive and one must be aware of that while
playing around with those commands.
A little bit of discussion about the links
uh is worthwhile. So, we have seen that both
hand link and symbolic links are possible
and we can create them for a given file and
looking at the inode numbers we can actually
determine whether they are hard links or symbolic
links and also from the long listing of the
uh file system also you could actually see
whether their hard links are symbolic links
okay.
Now let us look at the hard link and soft
link concept. So, we have got the home directory
here. So, let us create an empty file okay
and you would see that the empty file is here.
Now we would create a symbolic link to this
file. So, that is done using the command ln.
So, we would look at the man page for ln.
So, ln is making the links symbolic link is
done by using the -s option here it is -s
option okay.
So, symbolic link and the source for which
we are making the link and the destination
which is the link itself, so, ln s source
destination that is how the format looks like
and now when we look at the long listing you
would see that file2 is a symbolic link to
file1. And let us look at the inode numbers
you will see that file2 has an inode number
which is different from the file1 which means
that there are separate entries.
The file2 is a separate entry but it is just
a shortcut to the file1 okay. Now let us go
ahead and create a hard link also to file1.
So, the hard links are created by with the
link command without the -s option and now
look at the inode numbers in the long listing
and you will see that the file1 and the file3
have the same inode number which means that
these two are basically the same file and
you would also notice they are a number of
hard links here it says two.
So, which means that these files are having
2 hard links in the file system whereas a
link file2 has only one hard link which is
the symbolic link itself so, this is the difference
and you can actually note from this number
here how many hard links and from there we
can actually guess that there are multiple
locations for the particular file.
Now a brief note about the file sizes. So,
we could actually get the file size from the
long listing of the directory. We could also
ask for the file size to be specified in the
very first column using the -s option of the
ls command there are also some more commands
available to know more about the size occupied
by the file on the disk using the stat command
as well as by the du command and there is
a role that the block size will play to understand
that we will actually do both of the demo.
So, let us go and look at these sizes from
one of the system folders. So, we will go
to the user bin and type a ls there are amply
number of files. So, we can inspect the sizes
of these files here. So, there is a file called
z new. So, let us look at the size of that.
So, stat znew and you would see that it is
telling you about the size and the size it
says 4553 bites and how many blocks it is
occupying and so on.
So, that new is occupying 4553 bites and it
is actually occupying sixteen blocks and you
have the time stamps available here which
will tell you when was it accessed when was
it modified and so on. Now look at the same
information using the du command okay and
it says that together 8 it is occupying about
8 kilobytes. So, we can actually use the -h
command and it will tell you that you know
in a human readable form it is about 8 kilobytes.
Now why is it 8 kilobytes as for the du output
is concerned but the ls is showing you 4553?
The reason is that the block size is 4 kilobytes
and the size is just above 4 kilobytes. So,
it actually goes on to the 8 kilobytes. It
means that the files that are actually smaller
than the block size would actually take up
the whole block. So, you can have a block
or more blocks but not a part of the block.
Now let us look at the zmore command which
seems to be just less than one block okay
and you understand that it would actually
take the whole block okay and here you see.
So, you could see that zmore a command which
is occupying 4 kilograms and it would actually
have uh the size which is actually less than
uh one block uh only 1842 bytes but it is
actually occupy uh 4 kilobytes because that
is the size of the block.
Now there are some directories which you would
see in the root folder which are actually
not sitting on the disk they are only in the
memory and they are very special file systems.
We should not be messing around with those
territories but we can actually view a very
important system information from those directories
in a read only manner and let us explore those
two directors now.
So, we will go back to the root folder and
see that these folders are available here
you can see here this sys and then proc okay.
So, what are these folders? These folders
are actually not sitting on your hard disk
proc and sys uh they are actually in the memory
and these are all basically data structures
available for uh the users to know more about
their system and uh the proc system the slash
proc file system is an older system from kernel
2.6 onwards the slash system has been used.
However even now uh the information about
the various processes that are running is
still stored in these slash proc directly
itself. We can go in and look at that without
much problem. Let us go there cd slash proc
cd slash proc and you can see that it has
many files which are actually zero size and
that would be a little bit misleading the
reason is that some of them actually have
content that we can read but the size will
be zero the reason is that it is only a representation
for us to explore but actually they are not
real files which are sitting on the hard disk.
So, let us look at some of the contents. So,
there is a file called CPU info. So, which
is actually occupying zero but it says but
let us look at its content less CPU info and
you see that there is some information that
is coming out onto the screen and it seems
to be information about the CPU okay. And
we could also do cat CPU info and you would
see that several lines have come and you can
scroll with your mouse and read some of it.
So, it appears that it is giving you information
about your CPU and when you type ls -l you
would see this file is actually showing as
if it is occupying zero bytes. So, which means
that this is not real it is only in the memory
and as a place holder for us to know about
the system and you can actually now know more
about your system by reading some other files
also.
So, if you type cat version within the slash
book directory you would see the information
which is also available when you type uname
-a which is basically telling you about the
kernel that is being used by the operator
system along with what kind of an architecture
the particular mission is and what is the
operator system it is running and so on. When
you type meminfo okay cat meminfo will give
you information about the memory and this
information is coming in various forms how
much of free memory is there and how much
of the total memory is there etcetera.
And this is also available to us through other
commands like for example free okay. So, it
is more readable free -h will actually give
you in a human readable form how much of memory
is available for more applications to be launched
on this particular operating system. And you
can also do cat partitions I need to tell
you how many partitions are there in this
particular system if the hardest has multiple
partitions it will show you and it will also
show you the size of it in terms of number
of blocks.
But this is not very helpful uh you could
actually get the help using the df command
and the df command will actually show you
more information like what is a mount point
in which directory is that particular partition
made available to the user and so on. And
if you type df -h it will give you the information
in a human readable form with respect to the
size. So, for example my root partition happens
to be 183 gigabytes and of which only 30 gigabytes
has been used.
And my home directory is having a size of
481 gigabytes out of it about 6.9 gigabytes
has been used. Now if you go to slash proc
and look at the files there is some file which
actually looks rather big you know you can
see this there is a k core file which occupies
a huge size and it appears that this is a
very big number. If you calculate it would
be how many zeros if you calculate it would
come out to be about 140 terabytes.
Obviously it cannot be a real file because
our hard disk itself just one terabyte and
therefore this cannot be coming from the hard
disk. So, this basically is a an entry that
tells you what is a maximum virtual memory
the current Linux operating system is able
to handle okay theoretically and this comes
with 47 bits for the virtual memory and two
respiratory comes to about 140 terabytes.
So, this directory is very magical because
there are files which are having zero size
but have content. There are files which have
a huge size but actually do not exist on the.
So, slash prop that way is a magical file
system in which a lot of information is available
for you to look at to know more about system.
There are a lot of folders that are also going
down with some names which are basically numbers
these numbers correspond to what record the
process Id s.
For every process that is running in the operating
system there is an id and using these folders.
So, we can know more about those processes.
Similarly the slash sys folder is also the
same uh kind of a file system which is actually
a much more well organized than slash block
because it says like a newer development in
the in the Linux and here in a very neatly
organized directory structure you would see
that the information about the system is all
collected and available for you to read and
process in your scripts or any other use that
you may want to have.
So, let us go and explore some directory here.
So, I will go to slash sys and then go to
the bus folder and in the bath I will go to
usb and then I will go to devices and you
see that there are some there are some directories
links that are available. So, these are all
devices that are actually usb type of devices.
Now let me go to the one dash one directories
and there are some uh files that are here
and I can just read about them.
So, like I say less manufacturer okay and
it says JBL is a manufacturer okay and the
less product and it says JBL Quantum 300 is
a product map. So, instantly this particular
usb device that we are looking at is this
headphone that I am using right. Now to record
my audio. So, the usb device is JBL Quantum
300. Similarly other devices also can be looked
at. So, let us look at let us one dash and
less manufacturer it is a pixel art is a manufacturer
less product it says dell M116 usb optical
mouse that is this mouse which is actually
the usb device that we have looked at.
So, like this you know every device that is
connected with the computer we can actually
know more and more details about it just by
simply exploring the file system that is already
made available. So, slash sys and slash proc
or two file systems which help us to know
more about the hardware and we will learn
to process that information as we go along.
So I now encourage you to explore the file
system and run the simple commands that we
have discussed till now to understand your
machine a little bit more.